Sprint: March 21 → April 6 #98

Closed
RichardLitt opened this Issue Mar 20, 2016 · 20 comments

Projects

None yet

9 participants

@RichardLitt
Member

Sprint March 21st through April 6th

Sprint Goals

Sprint Discussions

Schedule

Please take notes in a separate pad, if you can, and link it here.

Endeavour Lead Time (PDT - UTC/Z - CET) Pad
sync @RichardLitt 10:00PDT 17:00Z 18:00CET IRC: #ipfs on Freenode
apps on ipfs @dignifiedquire 11:30PDT 18:30Z 19:30CET https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/ipfs-march-21-apps-on-ipfs
infrastructure @lgierth 12:00PDT 19:00Z 20:00CET https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/ipfs-march-21-infrastructure
libp2p @diasdavid 12:30PDT 19:30Z 20:30CET https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/ipfs-march-21-libp2p
js-ipfs @diasdavid 13:00PDT 20:00Z 21:00CET https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/ipfs-march-21-js-ipfs
go-ipfs @whyrusleeping 13:30PDT 20:30Z 21:30CET https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/ipfs-march-21-go-ipfs

Please add the Agenda to the Pad before the endeavour sprint starts.

Sprint Deliverables

  • Add your tasks below in a comment, that way we only have people listed who are really in the sprint
  • Add links to issues down here. Only add things you can finish this sprint.
@RichardLitt RichardLitt changed the title from Sprint: March 21 to Sprint: March 21 → April 4 Mar 20, 2016
@diasdavid diasdavid added the sprint label Mar 21, 2016
@RichardLitt
Member

Go-ipfs notes:

This week in go-ipfs, we prepped for finally shipping version 0.4.0. This included lots of testing, writing of information, and verification of different aspects of ipfs. I wrote a test for the fs-repo-migrations that adds a very large number of objects (over 200,000) and pins a couple thousand of them, runs the migration, verifies ​_everything_​, runs a gc, and then verifies everything again. Once that got working, I kicked off a test run of that with the numbers bumped by a factor of 10 (over two million objects!) and everything (eventually) completed just fine.
During our hangout, @dignifiedquire brought up how much he really doesn't like our config file. We talked about this for a little while and decided to add in validation functions for various config keys, so that when the user is editing the config, they can be more sure about not breaking anything.

@RichardLitt
Member

Anyone mind if we move the Monday hangout next week to Tuesday?

@dignifiedquire
Member

SGTM

@diasdavid
Member

libp2p

Lead: @diasdavid

Participants

Agenda & Nodes

@diasdavid
Member

js-ipfs

Lead: @diasdavid

Agenda

  • update
    • jsipfs swarm
    • jsipfs files add
    • js-libp2p-ipfs
    • js-ipfs-data-importing
  • standardizing JS development accross IPFS org repos, with all that we learned
  • ipfs init
  • files + mfs API
  • update documentation (readme) with examples in every module
  • ipld upgrade
  • bitswap
  • ask about this line https://github.com/nginnever/js-ipfs-merkle-dag/blob/master/src/dag-service.js#L27 (path should be checked for more than just exist?)
@diasdavid
Member

DAVID DIAS TODO

js-ipfs

js-ipfs-api

libp2p

npm on IPFS

IPLD

webui

specs

  • http-api-spec
  • specs

extra

@dignifiedquire
Member

@dignifiedquire TODO

  • Ship dignified.js for all of js-ipfs
@RichardLitt
Member
RichardLitt commented Mar 22, 2016 edited

To do

  • Sprint Management
  • Write the weekly roundup
  • js-ipfs block ipfs/js-ipfs#81
  • [~] http-api-spec work
  • 0.4.0 blogpost checking
@nginnever

TODO

- dignified.js - [x] PR https://github.com/jbenet/js-multihash/pull/5 - [x] PR https://github.com/diasdavid/js-ipld/pull/9 - [x] PR https://github.com/xicombd/is-ipfs/pull/5 - [x] PR https://github.com/diasdavid/js-libp2p-distributed-record-store/pull/3 - js-ipfs-data-importing - [ ] exporter - js-ipfs-merkle-dag - [x] add is-ipfs to check valid multihashes - [ ] needs CR - is-ipfs - [x] add buffer support - [X] use dignified.js tests - js-ipfs - [ ] cat command - [ ] get command - Webui - [ ] write tests - [ ] document in contibuting.md
@RichardLitt
Member

Apps on IPFS

Lead: @dignifiedquire

Participants

Agenda

You have 30 minutes for this agenda, 5 minutes before the meeting ends, consider moving the remaining items to a github discussion thread so that all the other sprint meetings can start in time.

Notes

  • webui
    • no drag and drop of folders into the webui - (browsers (chrome) will stop supporting drag and drop of folders)
    • needs a more helpful config menu for the ipfs config (to avoid users making mistakes and crashing their nodes)
    • webui release process will be deferred to 0.4.1 release. It needs to be a) documented b) audited (signed releases, etc)
    • dignifiedquire will make webui mockups available so that others can give feedback on the design. Might be better to use some tool for this job, a service perhaps?
  • orbit
    • orbit discussion was postponed to next week
  • pubsub
  • ip-wiki
    • (live demo)
    • still very young, can't publish new content yet, but fully usable using only the browser + public gateway
    • could benefit from research on existing CRDT-based wiki and git-based wiki ideas
After sprint meeting is finished, create the respective action items on the Github sprint issue
@haadcode
Member

@haadcode sprint goals - 21 Mar - 1 Apr

Summary

This sprint I'll continue the work on Orbit. Plan to refactor the UI code, improve the messaging (it's a little broken atm), fix broken UX feedback elements (such as loading bars) and fix bugs as I go. Really just a lot of grunt work.

Tasks

orbit-db
  • Use ipfs-log module
  • Stretch goal: Add pinning to db and ipfs-log objects
  • Stretch goal: try replacing current pubsub with @noffle's pubsub-swarm
ipfs-log
  • Fix message history fetching
  • Stretch goal: Stream API for ipfs-log
Orbit
  • Make message history more reliable
  • Continue UI refactoring
  • Fix broken UX elements and UI bugs
@lgierth
Member
lgierth commented Mar 22, 2016

@lgierth todo

  • dns outage
  • metrics
    • deploy mtail-nginx to all hosts ipfs/infrastructure#158
    • make gateway dashboard use nginx metrics
    • gateway content-type metrics
    • ipfs open FDs metrics
    • ipfs.io/blog and /version response time metrics (using ipfswatch)
    • bring back ipfs_p2p_peers metrics
  • pages
  • go-ipfs
    • security: harden gateway path prefix ipfs/go-ipfs#1988
    • v04x/v03x paragraph for 0.4.0 blog post
    • discuss extension of v03x EOL
    • test fs-repo-migrations stress test
    • test distributions immutability ipfs/distributions#58
  • infrastructure
    • finally write down infrastructure goals ipfs/infrastructure#157
    • identity validation for *.ipfs.io cert taken over by @whyrusleeping
    • debug automatic GC
    • parallel upload for provsn
    • migrate rest of ansible playbooks to provsn
  • errands
    • deploy weekly #8
    • deploy fix to weekly #6
    • deploy website
    • more yubikeys
    • meet with nycmesh.net
    • update whyrusleeping on vpn allowlist
    • reinstate update.ipfs.io
    • transfer domains to gandi account ipfs/infrastructure#84
    • pin geoip on v03x, for station
  • reminder to self
@noffle
Member
noffle commented Mar 23, 2016

Summary

I'm aiming to finish js-ipfs init this week, and have been making fixes and documentation improvements to various js- and libp2p- modules along the way. I'm also reflecting on libp2p and where it'll fit in for IPFS app developers in the near future.

Tasks

js-ipfs
  • init: add default assets (intro docs) to repo
  • init: tests tests tests
  • init: CLI and HTTP init routes
  • separate repo setup/teardown into its own module
js-ipfs-data-importing
  • write a readme & example
  • various bug fixes
js-libp2p-multiplex
  • update readme & add example
libp2p
  • thinking & note taking on how libp2p and IPFS apps will work together
@RichardLitt
Member

Our mid-sprint hangout is happening in 25 minutes! Yay!

@RichardLitt RichardLitt changed the title from Sprint: March 21 → April 4 to Sprint: March 21 → April 6 Apr 4, 2016
@RichardLitt
Member

Due to a lot of the team being at the NYC Blockchain workshop today, we're going to move the sprint hangouts to this Wednesday, April 6th.

@nginnever

Sprint End Summary

The past few weeks I have spent most of my time working on the files api and data. Started building the core and cli for js-ipfs files commands. Worked with a few other modules as well. Merged some PR's on is-ipfs to add buffer support and tests. The js-ipfs-merkle-dag module now does more than just check the existence of a multihash, it uses is-ipfs to assert it is a correct multihash and throws appropriate errors if not.

@diasdavid
Member

DAVID DIAS check in

Summary: The last part of this sprint was most filled by meetings, conversations and planning, which resulted in consolidated ROADMAPs for js-ipfs, libp2p, registry-mirror and js-ipld. You can check the most recent entry of Captain.log at ipfs/js-ipfs#30 (comment) , there is a lot of space for contributions :). Other than that, a lot of work went into the zlib problem that @dignifiedquire has now solved, plus CR+M a lot of contributions from several js-ipfs contributors. One last thing, the Research & Development Meetup is now a thing in Lisbon and if you are around, I totally recommend participating, check for the next event here: http://www.meetup.com/ipfs-lisbon-meetup/events/229807984.

js-ipfs

libp2p

npm on IPFS

specs

extra

@RichardLitt
Member

Summary

Nothing to report. This week was taken up with organizing and meetings in New York. I ran the event last Wednesday, where over 100 people came to AWS to hear about IPFS and other blockchain orgs. That was good.

@whyrusleeping
Member

Recap

last week we had lots of dicussion about Q2 goals for our projects.
From this, i've got a good idea of the set of tasks we want to accomplish over the next three months.
0.4.0 will be shipped today, and after that I will post a project roadmap for go-ipfs and go-libp2p

@lgierth
Member
lgierth commented Apr 6, 2016

@lgierth sprint update

I've been in NYC for this whole sprint, and even taking the team week into
account, this has been a really productive sprint for me after a long time :)

I had to fight the DNS outage on March 27th together with @jbenet, and we
learned quite a few interesting things that I'll be putting into action this
next sprint. We'll also follow up with a detailed public post mortem.

0.4.0 is ready to ship, I worked on the changelog and blog post with the others,
and shipped a security fix for an XSS vulnerability in the gateway's path prefix
feature which was added in v0.3.10.

Apart from that: more work on metrics for go-ipfs and infrastructure, and
debugging of hanging and slow go-ipfs daemons.

  • dns outage
  • metrics
    • deploy mtail-nginx to all hosts ipfs/infrastructure#158
    • make gateway dashboard use nginx metrics
    • gateway content-type metrics
    • ipfs open FDs metrics
    • ipfs.io/blog and /version response time metrics (using ipfswatch)
    • bring back ipfs_p2p_peers metrics
  • pages
  • go-ipfs
    • security: harden gateway path prefix ipfs/go-ipfs#1988
    • v04x/v03x paragraph for 0.4.0 blog post
    • v0.4.0 changelog
    • discuss extension of v03x EOL
    • test fs-repo-migrations stress test
    • test distributions immutability ipfs/distributions#58
  • infrastructure
    • finally write down infrastructure goals ipfs/infrastructure#157
    • identity validation for *.ipfs.io cert taken over by @whyrusleeping
    • debug automatic GC
    • parallel upload for provsn
    • migrate rest of ansible playbooks to provsn
  • errands
    • deploy weekly #8
    • deploy fix to weekly #6
    • deploy website
    • more yubikeys
    • meet with nycmesh.net
    • update whyrusleeping on vpn allowlist
    • reinstate update.ipfs.io
    • transfer domains to gandi account ipfs/infrastructure#84
    • pin geoip on v03x, for station
  • reminder to self
@RichardLitt RichardLitt closed this Apr 6, 2016
@jbenet jbenet removed the sprint label Apr 6, 2016
Sign up for free to join this conversation on GitHub. Already have an account? Sign in to comment